hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode of the smart
economy podcast I sat down and spoke
with sakib Wasim the CTO at Astra
protocol Astra protocol is a
decentralized legal layer that provides
kyc AML verification of end users while
simultaneously protecting their personal
identifying information the platform
aims to provide a plug and play
Regulatory Compliance layer for the
rapidly growing number of D5 protocols
in this conversation sac and I talk
about how his background in banking
impacted his perspective on blockchain
where the financial industry is today
with regards to implementing blockchain
technology into their Tech architecture
decentralized identity Solutions and the
role that Astra plays and so much more
just a reminder nothing said on this
podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell
any tokens that nothing should be taken
as Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with sakib and I hope
you enjoy the conversation too
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we are joined by
sakib Wasim the CTO at Astra protocol
Astra is on a mission to provide a range
of Regulatory Compliance tools for
crypto applications ensuring Financial
compliance standards can be met in the
web 3 Industry how you doing today sock
yeah not too bad Dylan doing good we're
wrapping up the week it's a Friday I
suppose it's things are going great how
about yourself doing great for those who
are in The Ether of the Timeless
whenever they're listening to this it is
Friday evening where Sak is and very
early on Friday morning where I am and I
can't be more excited to have this
conversation it was really fun to dig
into Astra and kind of learn more about
what's going on you guys are really
hitting it off right now and I'm excited
to have this conversation can you just
tell us a little bit about who you are
at Astra and what you do at Astra sure
well first Dylan thank you for having me
I really appreciate you uh you inviting
us along to the show
well I'm a CTO I'm also the chief
Innovation officer which kind of comes
as a pair really you can't really have
one without the other I believed so my
main responsibility at Astra is mainly
product focused I would say it's about
working with the founders and the key
Executives in the company to ensure that
our product is the most Innovative is
certainly pushing the bounds of what we
see in technology today and really
ensuring that we can deliver a solid
product my background in career has been
in developing uh major technology
platforms for traditional financial
institutions so it's nothing new in
terms of what that means for me from a
day-to-day perspective but it's um it's
been an incredible journey so far really
excited about all the amazing things
that we have developed yeah so happy to
be here and would love to tell you guys
a little bit more about Astra today yeah
and I want to uh build the place where
you're at right now by talking a little
bit about your history but before we
talk about your work experience and the
steps that led you to being the CIO and
CTO when was the first time you heard
about crypto Bitcoin blockchain ethereum
when was that and what were your initial
thoughts it's an interesting story Dylan
and uh I first gone into crypto and
first heard about crypto around 2012. so
I was working for a really huge
financial institution traditional guys I
was working on building Regulatory
Compliance solutions to deal with some
of the largest high-profile scandals in
European and UK banking history so uh
really let's call it dry work if you
want to call it that but one of my
employees in my unit actually just you
know were having a conversation with any
said hey have you have you heard about
this thing called Bitcoin and I was like
no no tell me some more about it and he
was telling me about all the amazing
things that you can do with Bitcoin how
incredible it is he described it to me
as untraceable internet money
so I was like okay please explain some
more to me about this untraceable
internet money uh he started talking
about not really from a technical
capacity but you know how this could be
a revolutionary commodity or a payment
facility around the world and how it's
borderless and how interesting it was so
I started looking into it started doing
some research and
um yeah I mean around 2013 between 2012
and 13 I made my first Bitcoin purchase
on the back of his recommendation plus I
mean you just had to look at it week by
week to see the thing flying up in price
short-lived however because untraceable
internet money kind of got a really bad
rap because of its nature it was being
used for reality activities there was
the huge sort of Road bust and the price
plummeted but it sparked enough interest
in me to start looking at how it can be
utilized further uh and then when smart
contracts came kind of came around how
that could really revolutionize
traditional financial institutions in
their way to uh provide greater
efficiency in scalability around
everything that they were doing so I'll
tell when I got in crypto and from there
it just it just kind of spiraled out of
control when I fell in love with the
thing yeah that's really incredible too
I hope I'm not doxing you or anything
but you you were working at a bank
during that time presumably so I'm
wondering if it's kind of actually
incredible that you took the plunge and
you were open-minded because from the
conversations I've had with folks who
are in the institutional space they saw
Bitcoin as a bit adversarial to their
industry and kind of viewed it
skeptically and even wrote it off so
what was it that made you kind of keep
your mind open was it the fact that you
were dealing with these large-scale
International frauds and this space did
you see an opportunity or were you just
excited about this new commodity
internet money type of thing I kind of
looked at it in in two uh verticals or
two waves of thought one was the the
same as pretty much everybody at the
time which was well if I put a little
bit of money in this thing and it keeps
going up in price I I could make some
good Returns on it and I think that's
probably why 99 of people kind of gain
their first interest in crypto and I
still are today right because it's so
sensationalized by the yield and the
return on it uh but really what
continued me on my career and my path
into working in blockchain was the
underlying technology and Frameworks
understanding how there is a lack of
transparency when it comes to current or
web 2 based Financial
platforms and how blockchain kind of
removes that it becomes completely
transparent Things become a lot easier
in terms of traceability we've all been
in that situation where you send a
payment somewhere and it just kind of
disappears Into The Ether and then a few
days later you get told it's arrived
right I mean one thing that I noticed
with Bitcoin was you send it you can see
exactly where it is and you know where
when it lands right and there's no
intermediary it removes all of these
intermediary payment processes and just
provides the most efficient service to
move assets from one place to another
plus the immutable record or something
that we're really struggling with
internally at these financial
institutions which is reconciliation
work I carried out a huge reconciliation
project that looked at where assets and
where goods were across multiple
different I don't want to go on the
ledgers but certainly different
databases so discrepancies and
Reconciliation work is a huge task if
you look at any financial institution
right and payment providers too Bitcoin
kind of removed all of that and
certainly would have made my job a lot
easier if some of the systems that we
were using were based on train so that's
where it started that's where the
enthusiasm came from and
um it didn't take me overnight I'm not
one of these prophetic but we just made
the switch immediately it took me a good
few years I think over the next two to
three years I really started tinkering
around and exploring and educating
myself on the possibilities of these
applications and I would say it wasn't
until around 2015 that I started doing
anything meaningful and starting
building applications things that could
be put to good use both in Verizon web 3
world and in the web 2 world as well I
started building some platforms out on
that basis yeah I remember I have the
excuse of being a graduate student when
I first heard about Bitcoin in 2013 and
just wrote it off I can't afford this
you know it was intellectually lazy
because I didn't necessarily dig into
what it was really offering it was just
the meme on Reddit that I saw and just
kind of looked past it so you started
building in 2015 this is around the time
of the ethereum white paper or maybe
ethereum is just launching or it's it's
right around test net so it sounds like
maybe a little bit of the features of a
smart contract platform might have
intrigued you to start building rather
than integrating Bitcoin as a payment
rail so maybe you can share a little bit
as your time about how you transitioned
out of the banking space and into your
Consulting role what did that kind of
look like as you're starting to build
these platforms what are you doing are
you doing this for fun are you doing
this for the companies you consult what
was kind of the thought process like at
that time well I was a consultant at
these financial institutions so I kind
of left any kind of full-time
responsibility with them and started
building for them which put me in a more
meaningful position both personally and
also in terms of what I can actually do
to improve the financial institutions
themselves when I was building I was
actually providing Services out to the
banks and some of the ideas that I was
presenting to them were blockchain smart
contract enabled
um services so things like CRM customer
relationship management tools things
like workflow platforms are always a big
issue for reconciliation we didn't know
who was doing what when and where a such
a development it was at that point
really that I met the founders for Astra
protocol they were working on some
really super futuristic stuff and I got
to hand it to the founders you know all
of them collectively that were working
on some really Visionary stuff when it
came to Smart contracts and payment
services and tokenization and really the
future of this industry I built quite a
solid reputation as a builder and
somebody who can deliver large projects
in the financial industry and through
some mutual contracts contacts we were
introduced and over a coffee I think it
was actually over dinner actually they
put a patent in front of me which was
around the validation of small contracts
and really I was looking up peer-to-peer
transactions and how things can be
validated and the asteroids of smart
contracts and all these things and I was
like wow you guys really are ahead of
the time so we had some discussions
around it they were looking for somebody
who kind of fit my build and we hit it
off I thought they had incredible Vision
they were tackling large problems and I
thought hey I mean it's nothing new for
me I built some really significant
Platforms in my time and I think this is
something that can really change the
world when it comes to financial uh
transactions that also enhanced where
crypto is right now so I started doing
something meaningful I started building
for these guys and we started tinkering
around and deploying lots of different
projects together I was doing some other
work as well but uh largely it became
solely focused on really building some
massive platforms for the industry so we
first started looking at blockchain
applications for governments because
retail adoption was already there and we
thought retailed options really going to
continue in a path
there are a couple of limiters to this
industry in our mind which was
governments Regulators traditional
financial institutions and that seemed
to be the future pinch point of this
industry which lo and behold is where we
are right now
so we started delivering some major
platforms for governments around the
world looking at how we can provide more
trustworthiness from governmental
transactions how we can build a more
efficient arbitration Solutions how we
can spread that not just for governments
but for massive ngos around the world
and we started building our reputation
with major people in this space uh
certainly significantly high profile
government officials and Regulators
spanning across all of Europe and the EU
all the way across the far Asia and and
of course the United States and North
America as well and then we started
really hitting the ground running with
the Astra platform we started looking at
well we see all of these issues we see
the pinch points in crypto and the
founders made that decision look we
really got to just go go at this and
make something of it because it really
is a problem that many people are
speaking about we have these incredible
patents how do we build a solution
around this and make it meaningful and
really industry changing and here we are
with Astra protocol now which is in in
our opinion and that's shared by many
people around the world certainly within
the industry and others outside of it as
well as how do we bring more trust to
this industry how do we get massive
financial institutions involved how do
we get The Regulators on side without
impacting the general ethos of this
industry which is about peer-to-peer
transactions and in some ways anonymity
and reducing barriers in this industry
and solving some of these big pinch
points I mean if we look at the growth
of this industry let's just look at some
timelines right we look at 2019 all the
way through to 2022 we've seen a massive
growth in this industry that's only
pulled itself back it's kind of caused
by this perception that the industry is
in fact the wild west which I would
agree it kind of is I think Dylan and I
both and and probably all the listeners
today if not directly know somebody
who's been scammed in this industry
right and that's created some major
concerns so how do you bring more
trustworthiness to this industry that's
being pointed out by regulators and in
the light of some massive scandals in
the last six months alone like how do we
bring more trust from their side how do
we get more trust from the public who
are looking at things like FTX lunatara
and saying hey you know uh I'm not
throwing my money into that thing
because I could get scammed I mean you
look at people who are supposedly
trustworthy in this industry and there
is a lack of trust so we built Astra it
is a Regulatory Compliance tool that's
quite a mouthful really what we do is we
do kyc KYB and AML so know your customer
know your business and anti-money
laundering techniques and it acts as a
barrier to bad people doing bad things
in this industry it doesn't stop people
from entering it's not prohibitive so
people can still join in a few clicks or
doing it in a way that promotes more
inclusivity wider Global coverage we're
doing in a way that uses tokenization to
bring the cost points down and prove all
of this on chain as well so that when
The Regulators look at a crypto
ecosystem or a blockchain because it's
removing a D5 ecosystem we can go
actually everyone in this ecosystem has
been validated they're doing their best
effort to keep the bad people out and
it's promoting uh safer cleaner industry
and there are lots of byproducts that
are so beneficial there is a lot that
we're gonna unpack in what you just said
in this conversation and a lot of it's
going to circle around Astra and its
services but before we do that I do want
to just kind of help paint the context
for where we've come from and where
we're going so you've been Consulting
these financial institutions for years
what was the vibe like when you're going
to these tables to these board rooms and
you're pitching these blockchain enabled
Platforms in 2019 maybe versus let's say
2021 before the Terra collapse and the
FTX scam they're most also been a lot of
skepticism because again I do View
cryptocurrencies and blockchain networks
as being kind of a competitor to the
banking infrastructure so maybe before
the financial institutions are starting
to see how these public ledgers can
decrease their costs or anything like
that what was kind of the battle if you
will like when you're going to have
these conversations in 2019 was it still
completely uphill or were Banking and
financial institutions starting to see
how they might be able to integrate
these networks into their architecture
well I mean I'll look back to around
2016 as like kind of a general time I
pitched some products out to traditional
financial institutions that were
blockchain based right and they didn't
want to have any of it really it was no
what is this blockchain is Bitcoin and
Bitcoin is Silk Road so no we can't do
this at all I don't blame them for that
I mean any new X exciting cutting-edge
technology most people don't want to be
the first people to jump into it
especially when there's kind of been
it's been tarnished by illicit activity
as well and and banks in their credit
are so regulated that it would nearly be
impossible for them to do that but it
doesn't mean everybody said no uh some
people gone you know into the crypto
industry very early on but if you looked
at it as a general uh consensus across
the traditional financial institutions
it was a no because it just wasn't the
use cases that I mean it just looked
transactional it looked like
peer-to-peer it weren't really
interested in that you couldn't really
figure out where the bank would be
involved and ultimately how they could
take advantage of this aside from the
obvious which is adopting a technology
and look I mean a million private
blockchain Solutions were born out of
that right and some of them are using it
today
um it doesn't do much but um a lot of
banks right now are exploring it and
have their own Innovation departments
that say take advantage of blockchain
Technology as a blanket term now if we
can compare that to 2021 or even 2022
let's talk about 2022 because I read
some really meaningful conversations
with massive institutions there is a
complete 180 in terms of their Direction
which is if we don't get behind this
thing or we're not involved in this
we're gonna be left in the dust because
retail could kind of keep Banks out of
the loop to a certain degree almost
right I mean Traditional Bank
centralization point is taking Fiat and
getting it into crypto so the banks are
always going to have a very very
important role to play in this entire
industry right and we can either educate
them and bring them on site and make
them open to the opportunities that
exist or we can kind of stone more them
which is what this industry has has been
guilty of as well and ultimately that
just cripples us it's like shooting
ourselves in the foot right so banks
have done their work they have a lot of
the banks that I have spoken to risk and
compliance has been all over it for a
couple of years they've got their head
around where the liability these are and
how they exist and The Innovation
departments can kind of start tinkering
around and deploying meaningful things I
would say we're still a little bit away
from Banks saying hey you know Bitcoin
is to everything or we're going to fully
adopt stable coins as a means but then
you can start looking at really
Challenger Banks and I'll point to saber
bank which is a Swiss bank and they do
both hot wallet cold wallet custody of
crypto and that's perfectly normal there
right so you do have a lot of innovation
on that and I would say the next step is
Banks playing more of a meaningful role
in things like D5 which is very exciting
and is happening a lot of people are
very skeptical about how they would
become part of that but they are they're
very much in there right now is what I
can tell you and and there are a lot of
things happening in the background
certainly with Astra protocol where we
are facilitating a lot of traditional
Banks entering into I don't want to call
them subnets because I think what
subnets are just a thing that's going to
come and go but they're going to be
involved in Texas and providing
liquidity on Japan as well so that that
can be taken advantage of let's look at
it from our problem statement
perspective dexes are great but
generally small transaction size
compared to traditional Finance right
and if you're a whale or you're a big
institution or maybe you're a Trader who
has his own who has his own shot and you
want deep liquidity you just can't
really do that on a decks and sorry to
all the uni swap fans out there and
we'll thank fans out there who are
probably screaming at me right now but
it's just not achievable in the same
capacity as it is in traditional Finance
so ultimately where does that Capital
come from how can we get that capital
and how can we bring it into this
industry and that's where the banks
looks like a key role to this I would
say the banks are there however in light
of recent scandals again it spooked them
and I would say again it's a trust thing
right I mean we build this trust in the
industry and then it falls down on
itself so it's up to companies like
Astra protocol to reinstill that trust
and then drive that next wave of
adoption which is going to come in two
Banks more retail trust which is
ultimately going to come after more
traditional institutions get involved in
a serious way yeah that's a very good
point because there's only so much
liquidity and if you're moving Capital
around with volume then there's a lot of
slippage that you're going to run into
and it just doesn't make any sense from
a large-scale perspective to kind of
onboard into these ecosystems when you
can't really move around the capital
that you're moving around on the Gen on
a day-to-day basis something that is a
really big value prop that at its
surface level sounds really simple but I
kind of want to dig in more into what
this really means before we started
recording we were talking about one of
your advisors Mick Mulvaney and he's
quoted saying if you have the ability to
make a three-party transaction to a
two-party transaction you have the
ability to change the world so it sounds
like the banks are coming around to this
but maybe for the retail user or someone
who's not so familiar with the
institutional side of things can you
highlight why this statement is such a
big deal I mean firstly it just makes an
amazing guy right he's he's an
incredible advice to have on board and
and we really pride ourselves at ashra
by having the best Advisory Board team I
would say we are second non in excuse me
the crypto industry as the whole space
in mixed credit as well he really knows
what he's talking about uh he's the guy
who set up the blockchain caucus uh over
in the states so uh he's really
passionate about all things involved in
this technology but where his particular
view as he's quoted in saying is is
really around infrastructure changes
right and that look efficiency is a very
key thing in this industry and right now
it just isn't efficient in order to get
deep liquidity you're probably looking
at using OTC desks right again we're
just going to kind of take things off
chain and then you stuck into that
intermediary you're going to either use
crypto to fund it but if you're looking
for big cash and capital you're probably
going to go through a bank anyway right
so why not just bring the banks on chain
why not allow them to leverage some of
that risk uh risk capital and put it on
chain right and it doesn't necessarily
have to be in the latest meme coin I'm
not saying that traditional banks are
going to go and buy you know Doge but
they might well it'll just take a little
bit of time I'd say where they're more
likely to be involved is in you're kind
of big your big assets like your Bitcoin
um like ethereum anything of a similar
standing and of course some of the
stable coins that are out there as well
so by really bringing the traditional
banks in you're going to allow us to
leverage more Capital so that means that
as you said price slippage doesn't
become an issue anymore right so you can
get deeper transactional liquidity which
means that it becomes more efficient
then now you can start bringing in a
wider range of users into crypto as well
people who have a lot more money want to
trade a little bit bigger and even to
the smaller customers as well I mean it
doesn't have to be all about big money
in this industry it just means that
transactional throughput is going to be
a lot more efficient because you've got
a deeper pool of money to access if you
want to trade the money is there you
don't have to wait five minutes for it
to appear we've all been there we've
gone on our Dax and we've clicked
calculate and it works out and it's
processing and it I'm sorry just can't
execute because the ones aren't there or
too many people are trying to access it
at the same time so bringing in the
traditional Banks is going to remove
that third party it's going to take
three-party transaction to a two-party
transaction
however there are a lot of things that
are needed to bring the banks in right
yeah and so now we're kind of at the
part of the arc where Astra is filling
in the gaps and you're using your
Advisory Board and your personal
experience working in this financial
institutional sector into providing what
banks need which is basically kycaml so
what are the types of Regulatory
Compliance tools and other services that
Astra offers these institutions that
they themselves couldn't provide I mean
there are a couple of things that we do
especially there are there are two
Inception points to this industry there
are two meeting points there is the
centralized area so you take your money
and you get it into crypto and you
probably use a centralized exchange to
actually get your money in there right
and then there is equal to which is the
unhosted wallets you metamask your trust
wallet whatever you might be using to
actually trade in a decentralized world
so how do you bring everybody together
in the decentralized space so how do we
put out that third party where people
just want to buy from centralized
exchange and then remove it from the
centralized exchange and put it on their
wallet right well that would be just
simply to purchase it via your wallet by
user party to do that and you need to be
able to access the bank's Capital as
well to do it
um so we provide a number of different
solutions for that there are really
three major ones right if we cut to the
heart of it that's know your customer
know your business and anti-money
laundering so know your customer is
effectively the end user so the retail
user how do we know that this person is
not involved in illicit Finance there
are many people saying ooh you're
speculating on this industry being full
of criminals right now and illicit
things but the truth is that it is being
used by implicit parties around the
world in in times of geopolitical
tension when we see War erupting in
Europe and in other places as well you
know on the cusp of Europe there is a
concern by many governments out there
that funds could be moving uh in
anonymized means through decentralized
platforms right and nobody wants to
reproxy do that so first validate users
come into this industry but we do not
sacrifice the key things of this
industry like being able to remain
anonymous being able to transmit
transact with who you want and choose to
who with whom you can transact with as
well and then there's the other side
know your business so Traditional Bank
wants to come in they need to get
checked as well it shouldn't just be
about the end user it should also be the
other parties but how do we know that
the party involved the business that
wants to provide liquidity is
trustworthy as well so we validate those
guys and now we have this amazing thing
in the middle we're approvable on chain
healthy and safe user from a customer
standpoint and now you have a provable
healthy assets from a bank that have
been converted into crypto so now the
bank can actually create some liquidity
pool on a decks right we can say okay
here's a parameter on a DEX which simply
says this liquidity pool can now be
accessed by anybody who's been validated
on the other side that guy can transact
with whomever he wants right I mean it
doesn't stop you from sending it over to
another wallet or trading within tool
but now we have this big Dax that now
has is able in a non-mandatory way I
might say to facilitate a whole new
spectrum of transactions you can trade
with a bank you can access that deep
liquidity and you can send it elsewhere
if you need to as well
I think that's the next step of this
industry that's what Astra is really
focused on is is really allowing the
decentralized aspects and decentralized
solutions to really scale but we're not
just stuck with that I mean our solution
is much more efficient than traditional
products as well where we place the
products is very straightforward Dylan
we provide that to the D5 applications
and centralized applications the same
it's a compliance tool so most companies
need it and because we're doing it in a
way that's more Innovative more
trustworthy and more cost effective than
most providers right now I'm not going
to take any shots or call anybody out
but let's just say there's some major
providers and as a benchmark we're about
30 more cost effective so
I mean look it's it's been it's becoming
painfully obvious that Astra is is the
go-to solution for those needs in the
industry and I want to get into the cost
differences in a minute but I do want to
dig a little bit into the tech first so
how are we doing these kyc KYB AML
checks are we using something like zero
knowledge proofs does Astra store this
information on a secured Vault elsewhere
I'm assuming this is all part of the
decentralized legal Network so could you
just share a little bit about what the
tech is like like how can I as an end
user feel confident that I've provided
the information to validate and verify
my identity but now I won't have to deal
with uh breach like Equifax did in 2017
or 2015 I think it was yeah absolutely
it's it's very straightforward we
separate two pieces of information a
user compostables and wants to get their
wallet validated right or the current
address that they use in in order to do
kyc you need to prove that you're a real
person and in this industry big issue in
and of itself right but you also need to
prove that you're a trustworthy
individual so there is a requirement to
provide some identification for that we
separate now the biggest concern for
most people then is uh now you've got my
identity and you've got my wallet at
this time that becomes a little bit
tricky and a little bit scary and are
you going to share that with the decks
and what if a breach happens on the
dex's side like what it all gets a bit
confusing for people from our side we
keep it really simple your personal
identity information is never stored in
the same place through our architecture
as your crypto information as you can
call it right we keep everything that is
personally identifiable information on
secure service and we're out we are
bringing out our own identity
application as well so our own
decentralized identity solution to
actually
any concerns about a user's information
being held on server it can simply live
on your device
and your blockchain information is going
to live completely far removed from that
we operate everything under multiple
data privacy laws as well and State
security privacy standards as well so
that we do everything to ensure that all
our information is safe well provisioned
and for an added level of trust as well
we actually use a blockchain ledger
service that allows you to see where
your information is being stored who
it's accessed by which changed if it's
removed and the end user has access to
all of that so Dylan if you came on to
ask for services and you signed up and
you've got KY seed you'll be able to see
where your information is being stored
if anybody has accessed it if any
changes have happened then you can
always request the right to remove that
information as well you can delete it
you can provision it elsewhere if you
want to you can destroy it make sure
it's not there you'll be able to see all
of that because again we're using
blockchain to actually have an all proof
of that and you know you might just say
well that's all well and good what if
Astro has all the nodes well we just
provision nodes out to other people so
that Astra isn't taking this centralized
position on that we have external audit
companies that hold those nodes so you
can actually really trust it because
we're not single point of failure at
that point absolutely that's really
interesting what if like uh I want to
change my wallet or I lie and I say that
my identity is attached to this wallet
is there like some sort of like ZK badge
I can send to another wallet or do I
need to reach out to you guys
individually and say hey Astra I'm going
to start using a new wall call it can
you attach this to my previous pii that
I provided nope you're gonna do it again
Dylan it's a short answer and the reason
and the reason for that is we hide
another really significant person onto
our Advisory Board which is called
Kirsten Nielsen right uh she's the
former head of Homeland Security and
cyber security for the U.S federal
government so looking at problems of
fraud looking at people trying to get
around systems is nothing new to her and
in her credit she raised a couple of
questions and concerns to us which is
what if a user is held underdressed when
they sign up to your application so what
if they're being forced to do it on
behalf of another person and what if
they lie as well so how do you deal with
these issues so we looked at a broad
spectrum of use cases that fall into
what we call the unhappy path so if
people try and do weird or strange
things in our solution we basically came
to the conclusion that if you want to
validate a new wallet you need to go
through the process and make sure that
you're validating and proving it that
doesn't mean that we need the same level
of information nation of course there
are ways to link multiple branches to
different wallets however you will need
to verify and prove that you you are in
control of it otherwise we'd run into
that same issue which is Dylan uh sack I
don't really feel like doing it my
reputation is not the best would you
mind filling out this world for me yeah
sure no problem I can do it well you
know if you don't revalidate yourself
you don't prove that you're still in
control of that wallet your credit will
drop as well and we can highlight that
as
so it works in two veins right I mean if
you lose access to your service you want
to make sure that a validated wallet's
not just floating out around there right
you also want to make sure that it is
conditional and that if those conditions
are not fulfilled that validates proof
will destroy itself so we've built that
into our service as well cool and it
sounds like it'll be on the end user to
determine how they want to use different
networks and from what I've gathered it
sounds like the most uh prominent use
case right now might be with dexes but
what are some other verticals in the
crypto space that your retail and an
Institutional and clients are interested
in participating in with a validated
identity are we talking about like large
nft purchases are we talking about
participation in Dows what are kind of
like the innovative ways in which both
sides of the spectrum of astra's users
are looking into the crypto space you
that's not a really good one there
actually Dows doubt infrastructure so we
have a partner called Inc Finance Inc
finances Dow infrastructure it basically
allows you to create a dow and have lots
of different permission controls around
it so you can have a dow that's
completely add-on right and good help
the SEC ever ever chase you down on that
one and you accidentally docked it right
and then you can have a validated debt
out which is you do things in a
responsible way and you can actually
bring businesses in after it can
validate all of those users and all the
different geographies that it that those
users sign up from the week over 150
countries uh more than that in fact so
it's it's a godsend to anybody who's
building a dow or in the case of ink
Finance facilitating other people to
create doubts so that's one example
where both businesses and Retail users
can kind of be all melded in the same
pot that another instance and there is
kyc happening but it is centralized as
well is in the learning and borrowing
space so you can look at some of the big
players out there and again again I'm
not in the habit of calling out names of
companies out there but I can guarantee
everybody today if you're using a
learning and borrowing site for any
purpose right now in crypto and
um you know you have to use kyc for it I
can pretty much with a very fine degree
of certainty tell you they're using a
centralized kyc provider which means
that letting the borrowing site knows
exactly who you are where you are what
you're doing you have access to all of
your information and you don't know what
they're doing with it plus the
application that's using it as well I
mean if there is any provision Services
there are external third parties they'll
have access to your information as well
not just your address but also all of
that thing and borrowing activities that
you do I mean who would you rather go
with this a centralized application or a
decentralized application that protects
your identity and makes you responsible
for that information as well yeah I'm
curious because when you ask that
question obviously I would air towards
the decentralized end of the spectrum
but I've been a Degen since 2017. so are
you starting to see maybe not
necessarily the retail Degen coming
along to this thought pattern are you
also starting to see like large-scale
Enterprise financial industry starting
to Brock the significance of a
decentralized pii storage absolutely I
mean think about it if you're a massive
organization and you have all of this
data to protect and manage and you you
named a couple of scandals yourself in
there I mean it just becomes easier if
you just cut out all of the technology
craziness and the blockchain stuff what
you have with Astra is a TYC solution
that is faster more cost effective and
more provable and more trustworthy and I
think it just becomes pretty obvious at
that point if you're a centralized
service and you can or a web 2 service
then you can save 30 of your average
cost uh with the current client you have
and you have a really strong Solution
that's being adopted by Major
institutions around the world it becomes
a no-brainer I mean we've seen a huge
range of different companies interested
in using Rising our service that goes to
Major traditional Banks it moves over to
decentralized exchanges planning and
borrowing applications we touched on
finance and those guys to people who are
working on credit reference tools for
this industry as well so shout out to
the credit guys and their smart score as
well you know they're building out some
interesting things that also require
people to actually understand whether
people have a shaky web to history or
even the web 3 component of it as well
looking at on-chain analytics to see
whether you've you know you've been
entangled in uh mixes or other things
like that as well and I know I kind of
have a an understanding for what answer
you might provide based off of the
conversations I've had with folks who
are dealing with financial institutions
such as yourself but maybe for a
listener of the smart economy podcast
who hasn't necessarily had these types
of conversations why exactly is a
decentralized solution so much more cost
effective than a centralized solution in
because from what I've gathered it can
cost upwards of billions of dollars a
year to maintain an architecture and
infrastructure from within a bank so
maybe that's a little bit along the
lines of where we're going to start
seeing these decentralized Solutions
start to offer cost cutting or decreased
costs so could you just share a little
bit more about the details and inner
workings of those cost differences yeah
I mean look if you're running a cloud
service it can get pretty costly if
you're running hundreds of billions of
transactions a year right so there's
ultimately architectural costs that come
into this and this is just me putting my
CTO hat on and then obviously
maintenance and security and all these
crazy things on top of that it gets very
expensive if you're a bank using these
10 provides infrastructure those costs
are shared between lots of different
people so it becomes like more
manageable but again it kind of goes
back to what we talked about earlier
which is you've got to remove a lot of
inefficiencies from the end to end
process and if we use a really simple
example which I touched on at the start
of our conversation it was around
spending money so you live in a
different country to me and I want to
send you some money right let's say I I
wire it or I use faster paid services or
ACH or anything like that and I send it
to you the first thing that my bank's
going to do is say well okay let's just
check out this money and make sure it's
it's coming from the right person in the
right place right and then it needs to
go to another party that will probably
convert the currency over into something
that I need they'll do their checks on
their end and then eventually it'll land
with you in that time frame lots of
third parties have had access to it
there are parties in the middle that
will try and leverage that capital and
make some money from it in the end and
at the end of it you're paying the cost
so I'll lose some money in the
transaction for sending it to you and
you won't be left with everything that I
sent at the start as well so you're
losing out as well well there are lots
of parties in the middle that have
profited from that as well and it
becomes incredibly inefficient so plus
also for the banks experience for their
customers I mean it's not the best
experience Banks aren't bad they provide
an incredibly you know you know an
incredible necessity to this world and
they are responsible for everybody's
day-to-day life in in one capacity or
another right so we can't paint them as
the bad guys because they're actually
doing a lot of good out there as well in
helping us just live from a day-to-day
perspective but I think they've realized
as well that their current processes are
inefficient and there are lots of ways
in blockchain that they can explore that
if they started moving to more
decentralized services they would
probably see more efficiency but it's
not just both feet into the pool right
you kind of got to do it with measure
you've got to do it with caution you
you've got to see whether it will
actually work for you right you've got
to set up Pilots you've got to see if
there's interest and then you've got to
see if you can make money at the end of
it as well because ultimately they are
businesses right and if all of those
things can be checked off and we're
absolutely certain about the
efficiencies because it removes the
number of parties right then they
absolutely will and that's why we see a
lot of them involved and as I said
earlier it probably might not be things
like meme coins and the Thousand X's
that us deep genes are seeing all the
time right but it might be more stable
assets or considerably more stable
assets that they might a lot more high
risk Capital into and then slowly as
they start to realize and see this
actually tangibly happening for them
they actualize these benefits from
efficiency and cost saving well then the
transition becomes a lot smoother and a
lot easier but it becomes risk
calculated at all times there's a huge
focus on risk and that is where Astra
becomes hugely important would minimize
risk between all those parties because
without necessarily seeing that person's
name and address and all those things
you have multiple parties through our
decentralized legal Network validating
so you have trustworthy organizations
effectively acting as oracles to
validate the kycu was done correctly so
you can trust the information it's
mutable it's on chain everybody in this
whole ecosystem now can say okay I can
trust this wallet and it actually is a
human and I'm not sending it somewhere
else as well
and one of the really kind of cool
bullet points when you go to the Astro
website is that there's Opera you guys
operate in more than 100 countries and
you integrate more than 300 sanctions
lists so what is the process like for
adding these sanctions lists to uh
astra's database is it as simple as like
a copy paste CSV file and what is the
process like for operating in a new
country I mean
God Bless The Debs Astra because we
don't make it easy for them I mean it's
a huge task right so evolved and the
guys in my team they are they're Wizards
I will say that it is simply you we've
built a matrix that allows you to plot
different
um sanctions and screenings then we can
run the user cred against that again
separating pii and crypto information
because you've got to run a wallet
address against unchain and then you've
got to take your user's identity and run
it against the sanctions of the list
right so we do both we've made it easy
from our side but also these lists are
updated in real time as well and it's
retrospective so part of AML is
continuously monitoring them in cases
any threats so let's say that I am a a
master criminal and I've gotten away
with it for 30 years
um all of a sudden tomorrow I get found
out when I appear on the um watch list
well from the moment that I get added to
it Astra will slack that user up and
it'll stop them if necessary or without
becoming a centralization point that
says yes and no this person can enter
and that person can't enter we highlight
that to the Dax that may have already
built our rule set around who that
wallet can interact and trade with right
to minimize the risk to another party
awesome and I know that you have
repeatedly mentioned that you're not one
to uh throw around any names in a
negative light so maybe uh just to help
the listeners kind of get a better
understanding of this space can you just
maybe share some examples of centralized
and decentralized competitors to the
Astra protocol I'm gonna break the Dylan
actually so go for it apologize if it's
a little bit cringe-worthy there are no
capacitors to our service firstly not in
the same breath as to what apps for does
firstly nobody has been able to build
the decentralized legal networks the
capacity that we have and bring in
massive institutions like KPMG and
others right really big names
secondly we've got global patterns
around what we do as I mentioned at the
start of our conversation so nobody can
really Tread On Us when it comes to what
we've built while we're going with it
right and the third thing is as well I
mean we have an incredible Advisory
Board we've got a huge amount of reach
and we have put years of work into this
I mean you're talking over four years of
engaging with government engaging with
Regulators being part of this community
of crypto Builders uh actually being on
the ground being at every single
convention all year round minus East
Denver which I've missed a couple of
times since we discussed
um so we've really put the work in so
there is no real competitor there are
people who offer similar services to
what we do but we can poke holes in
their service and call them out all day
right look at your centralized providers
look at your Junior's for instance and
then look at centralized providers that
guides themselves as decentralized as
well I don't really have any on-chain
improvability just basically take a feed
of web3 so you have those guys too but
Astra is really good at is managing both
sides of this there is a web 2 element
to all of there is understanding who a
person is in the real world and then
there is a digital version of that which
is your crypto Persona there is huge
amounts of disparity Astra wraps all of
that under one banner and does it in a
way that protects the user's information
allows us to do this in a
transactionally superior way to others
as well and of course verifies and
validates all this through the
decentralized legal Network whilst I'm
bragging a little bit here Dylan I kind
of batted your question off I know but
um we're doing great things I can say
that uncomfortably I think in your
answer uh you provided enough threads
for people to pull if they want to go
down this Rabbit Hole so kind of uh
wrapping up I do want to talk a little
bit about the Astra token uh so can you
just share a little bit about what the
purposes of the token and the ecosystem
and what kind of role does it have with
your institutional side clients and your
retail side clients okay there are lots
of different verticals to this so I'll
I'll cover the really specific technical
stuff first because as a CTL that's
probably where my head should be at
right so let's get that out of the way
so Astra is a utility is being able to
efficiently manage requests from
individuals and let's break that down
into a way that's easy to understand so
Astra has lots of clients right and each
of these clients have millions of
customers that are all trying to get kyc
at once because we're amazing at what we
do so if customers want 50 all fire out
requests at the Asheboro service at once
how do we prioritize them to what depth
do we prioritize without then having to
batch customers which makes things very
slow if you look at why most centralized
applications are slows because they
batch them so how does Astra avoid that
right we have a prioritization and a
queuing mechanism that means that all
these different apps can go ahead buy
the Astra token on the secondary Market
they can lock them into the Astra
dashboard which is done via Smart
contract again very transparent now once
they've locked them into the Astra
dashboard we're able to rank each of
these applications so it does become a
little bit a pay-to-play service but
without negatively impacting people who
are new and just want to get dipped
their toe and just get involved so we
then rank all these applications within
a time box window so as they've all fire
transactions hours we can simply say
this is the order in which those
transactions should be dealt with in an
efficient manner and as more
transactions come through to maintain
efficiency we narrow that time box
window and then as we get less let's say
two o'clock in the morning when people
do want to do their kyc it broadens up
against so it's flexible time window
allows us to rank applications but if we
talk about like the Practical side of it
like what does it really mean for a
business what does it mean for an end
user well if you're a customer typically
you don't pay for your kyc right and we
normally you go into an application ask
you to fill it out and go ahead and do
it so you can do that you can jump onto
an app you can do your kyc with them and
you're done so from a retail end user
you don't really see too much unless you
want special privileges we know how
static kyc is you have to you know
basically run and repeat for each of
these different applications dkyc and
now instead of one person having your
driver's license 30 of them do because
you've got the the Buzz for D5 overnight
uh with Astra if you come direct to ask
for your dkyc rather than going to a
third party and you hold some tokens
again buy a smart contract in your
wallet will give you access to that
entire ecosystem so you come direct
towards the dkyc with us so that's the
only point that you'll feel it the
basics of this is very simple right apps
by our token they lock them so we can
prioritize them when a transaction hits
we'll remove some tokens so that we're
creating a competitive Marketplace those
tokens are moving to an after lockup so
they're removed from that lock up the
DAT block up on the dashboard they're
sent to Astra Astra then rewards
everybody who's involved in that
transaction so if you have lots of
validators coming from major legal
companies they will all get a slice of
that whatever it remains for Astro we do
a few things to them we burn them we
provide rewards when you want to re-lock
your app your tokens after a period of
time so we'll provide rewards back to
our customers as well to keep the cost
Point down and then we use it for growth
I mean we want to grow the company we
want to ensure that we're able to
provide more decentralized solutions to
the market and do greater good with it
as well and pay our devs as well I think
that's important too provide rewards to
them so it sounds like uh the Astro
token can kind of lock in adapt front of
the line ability to verify the customers
once they hold x amount of tokens to
kind of put them to that point in the
line so wrapping up I want to kind of
talk about a larger big picture from my
perspective issue in the states right
now we're seeing a lot of negative press
with SEC enforcements when it comes to
regulations so right now an individual
could think that it might not be the
best place to start a crypto company in
the States but this isn't the status for
the rest of the world you see a lot of
crypto forward Regulators in other
countries so just generally speaking
what's your stance on regulations and
Regulatory bodies around the world and
what are the ways in which Astra is
being Nimble enough to work with a The
Regulators who are the most
forward-thinking but also being able to
work with Regulators who might be a
little uh hard-headed right now I mean
look we have good relationships with
Regulators all over the world so your
big guys in North America your SEC and
others we've got regular dialogue with
right and first the industry is kind of
painting them out to all be lizards and
and crazy people who want to kill the
industry and and some that might be true
some of them right but not generally
speaking I mean the SEC and others are
trying to do be get conducive or not is
provide more consumer protection so that
there aren't any more issues in the
future where people can get scammed
because it's pretty easy to get scammed
right now
unfortunately what they've been really
bad at is actually getting anything out
there that says it's either security or
it's not and you can do this and you
can't do this right because there are so
many outlier cases in the industry so
they've been very slow to actually get
anything out and I think you know since
2012 maybe earlier they've had the
opportunity really to do something and
they just haven't really delivered much
that's not the responsibility of one
person it's a group of people across
multiple Regulators in North America
and I think with FTX as well given that
it was still prominent across the states
and whilst it impacted in you know
mostly International investors it kind
of left a bit of a smudge on the page
for The Regulators in that they could
have done something or they could
potentially stop something in the future
so that's probably a little bit of fire
behind them at the moment and I think
that's what we're saying certainly from
my perspective anyway is that they're
making a bigger push to stop things
potentially becoming issues in the
future the problem is is that whilst
they're investigating and while they're
threatening lawsuits they're not really
passing any policies or making any
decisions either which way they're kind
of leaving it up to the courts to make a
decision for them which I think is
probably the wrong way to do this now
what Astra is really primarily focused
on is speaking with regulates is to say
hey look crypto is faster than you it's
going to move faster than you and it
always will so the policies that you
make that you probably should have made
10 years ago people are smart in this
industry so the developers and their
problem solver so they'll try and find a
way around it as well but if not they'll
just move to a different country and
provide their services to people outside
of the industry nobody wants the US to
fall behind not a single regulator not a
government official wants to lose the
Competitive Edge when it comes to
technology potentially becoming more
efficient from a financial perspective
so what we're doing is we're bridging
that Gap speaking with Regulators to say
hey look this is where crypto is right
now here are some of the issues here is
how we can resolve it here's where
Asheville plays a role and we're happy
to provide more education to you and how
we can do those Services as well
um so we do a lot of that we do a lot of
talking with the right people in in
regular sorry for a regulatory
perspective to make them aware of what
is happening in the industry good bad
and indifferent and here's where our
solution falls in the middle and this is
what we're doing to actually bridge that
gap of those differences and largely
they're very appreciative of that
they're all humans at the end of the day
nobody wants to to feel uneducated or
feel like they've missed a beat either
and that creates an environment where
you can have mistrust as well people
just making the wrong decision so we're
primarily involved in education but
speaking with people right at the top as
well because it trickles down if you can
change the hearts and minds of the
people at the top and make them aware
that there are good people and there is
a good opportunity to do things the
right way in this industry and really
make it meaningful with good
infrastructure but then of course we'll
have their buy-in and policy change will
become a lot easier and you know they
can finally make some decisions
just from kind of an international
perspective I know that sometimes
Americans can suck the air out of the
room just with the way that this
country's operated in the past 100 years
so beyond kind of like the SEC issues is
this kind of like a negative uh like a
Dusty Cloud you know hearing all this
news about the SEC when there's a lot
more positive that's happening in other
jurisdictions around the world I mean
look
um the U.S aren't alone in in I think
slow or slow to make decisions as well
there are lots of countries out there
that have done that there are probably
some better examples of countries where
government have taken a good step
forward and built some good Clarity the
UAE Dubai Abu Dhabi has done a
tremendous job in a top-down policy
perspective they write the rules they
make the decisions and they roll it out
and if they need to make changes we'll
do that quickly on in that clinic trust
as well one thing that has been
incredible as well it's actually looking
at the uh the FSB as well looking at the
guidance that they're providing for more
I would say unilateral Solutions in
terms of policy and guidance for you
know a whole host of countries as well
so but ultimately who does that fall on
yeah it's again going to fall on the
Securities and commodities commissions
and Regulators within each of these
countries as well but at least we're
getting somewhere at least we have some
more uniformity in the way of thinking I
just think that we're so used to moving
fast in this industry we can see it
moving at a snail's pace in some cases
like the US it really kind of has but I
wouldn't expected to stay that way given
a light of recent Scandal awesome this
has been a great conversation I've had
an hour of your time I really appreciate
it so if anybody wants to learn more
about Astra keep up to date with you
check out where they can find the token
on a secondary Market what are ways in
which people can kind of tap in well
certainly if you want to know more about
us at Astra protocol.com you can also
follow us on Twitter so uh you know just
look for extra protocol on Twitter as
well we have a really bustling community
on telegram so if you're a telegram
music search for the Astra protocol
official Channel as well and of course
we launched on exchanges as well so if
you've done all your research this is in
no way Financial advice of course but if
you're interested in acquiring ask for
tokens you can obviously do that on a
number of international exchanges we
have Gates we have kucoin and we have
Maxi so those are the three exchanges we
have right now uh if you don't find us
there be patient make sure you're
following our Telegram around because we
have lots of updates on additional
exchanges that akka will be joining so
uh some good news for the US I took sag
this was a awesome conversation thank
you so much for taking the time to share
your insights into decentralized
identity Solutions and just for sharing
your perspective on where we're going as
an industry and where we've came from I
really appreciate it oh it's been a
pleasure Dylan looking I really
appreciate you having us on and
hopefully this was informative to the
listeners we're great at Outreach as
well guys so if this has provoked any
thoughts and you've got questions for
the after team head over to our Telegram
and we'll reply to that awesome well
have a great evening appreciate it you
too all the best Cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation I thought Zack's
perspective was really insightful
particularly with regard to the level of
experimenting that financial
institutions are currently doing with
crypto and blockchain but that there
also was a breach of trust after the FTX
collapse in 2022 that might be making
them a little more cautious it was also
super interesting to hear that banks are
taking things like defy a little bit
more seriously at the risk of being left
behind in the new Financial Innovation
that is occurring right now and it was
really great to hear more about how
Astra balances the principles of
decentralization with things like
identity and storage but still acts as a
centralized entity that regulators and
larger institutions can feel confident
having conversations with on that note I
want to thank you so much for taking the
time to listen to the smart economy
podcast if you liked what you heard and
want to support the show please keep Neo
news today in mind when voting for your
Neo Council representative as part of
Neo's governance process we appreciate
you and look forward to catching you
next time
foreign